README for the Wii/Gamecube port of ScummVM 
-------------------------------------------

REQUIREMENTS

  Wii:
    - Supported SD card or USB mass storage device
    - Wiimote or Gamecube controller in port 1

  Gamecube:
    - Supported SD card
    - SD Gecko adapter
    - Gamecube controller in port 1

INSTALL

  - Copy the "scummvm" folder to the "/apps" folder of your chosen storage
    media
  - Copy your demos and/or games to the SD card, USB mass storage device or
    burn them on a DVD-R using the ISO9660 standard. A DVDX install is
    required for DVD support. DVDX can be installed through the HackMii
    installer, available at http://bootmii.org/download/

    Supported freeware games: http://scummvm.org/downloads.php#extras
    Supported demo versions: http://scummvm.org/demos.php

RUN

  Wii:
    Either use The Homebrew Channel, available at
    http://hbc.hackmii.com/ and http://bootmii.org/download/
    or load "/apps/scummvm/boot.dol" with your favorite loader.

  Gamecube:
    Load "/apps/scummvm/scummvm-gc.dol" with your favorite loader.

CONTROLS

  Wiimote

    IR: Mouse movement
    A: Left mouse button
    B: Right mouse button
    Minus: Escape
    Plus: "." (Skip current line of text)
    2: Enter
    1: Port specific options dialog
    Home: F5 (ScummVM menu)
    DPad up: Shift (Mass-add for the launcher, combined with home: GMM)
    DPad down: Virtual keyboard
    DPad right: Predictive dialog (only in AGI games)

  Gamecube pad

    Analog stick: Mouse movement
    A: Left mouse button
    B: Right mouse button
    X: Escape
    Y: "." (Skip current line of text)
    Z: Enter
    R: Port specific options dialog
    Start: F5 (ScummVM menu)
    DPad up: Shift (Mass-add for the launcher, combined with start: GMM)
    DPad down: Virtual keyboard
    DPad right: Predictive dialog (only in AGI games)

DISPLAY SETUP

  "Graphics mode"
    There are 4 modes to choose from:
    1) Default
    2) Default, bilinear filtering
    3) Double-strike
    4) Double-strike, bilinear filtering

    Double-strike modes render at half the vertical resolution. On interlaced
    modes this means that only one field is used for rendering, effectively
    using progressive frames (240p) with no "combing" effect. These modes
    improve the picture quality for low-res games, especially on CRTs.
    Not all display devices support these modes. Only available for games with
    a vertical resolution of 240 pixels or less.

    Bilinear filtering softens the picture to some degree. This is a feature of
    the GPU (no game performance loss).

  "Aspect ratio correction"
    Some games run at a native resolution of 320x200 pixels using non-square
    pixels for a 4:3 display. This video mode is not available on the Wii or
    Gamecube, and this feature stretches the picture to 320x240 pixels to the
    original 4:3 aspect ratio.

  "Fullscreen mode"
    If your Wii is set to 16:9, this will stretch the picture to fullscreen.
    Turning this option off results in pillarboxing (black borders on the left
    and right sides), but the aspect ratio will be kept. This option has no
    effect on 4:3 setups.

  If the picture gets cropped or black bars are visible, use the Wii options
  dialog to adjust the video output to your display device. Pressing 1 on the
  Wiimote or R on the Gamecube pad opens this dialog. The presented video
  options have to be set for the default and the double-strike modes
  independently.

THANKS

  shagkur and WinterMute, for devkitppc/libogc and the coorperation
  svpe, for fixing the libfat feof/thread bugs on the last minute
  para, for making wiiuse available in libogc
