This document is a partial translation of the English README file. The
original document has much more information, so if you cannot find what
you need here and can understand a bit of English, try to look at the
English README file.

For more information, compatibility lists, details on donating, the
latest release, progress reports and more, please visit the ScummVM home
page at: http://www.scummvm.org/

Table of Contents:
------------------
1.0) Introduction
 * 1.1 About ScummVM
 * 1.2 Quick start
2.0) Contact
 * 2.1 Reporting Bugs

1.0) Introduction:
---- -------------

1.1) About ScummVM:
---- --------------
ScummVM is a program which allows you to run certain classic graphical
point-and-click adventure games, provided you already have their data
files. The clever part about this: ScummVM just replaces the executables
shipped with the game, allowing you to play them on systems for which
they were never designed!

Originally it was designed to run LucasArts' SCUMM games, such as Maniac
Mansion, Monkey Island, Day of the Tentacle or Sam and Max. SCUMM stands
for 'Script Creation Utility for Maniac Mansion', which was the first
game for which LucasArts designed this system. And much later it gave
its name to ScummVM ('VM' meaning Virtual Machine).

Over time support for a lot of non-SCUMM games has been added, and
ScummVM now also supports many of Sierra's AGI and SCI games (such as
King's Quest 1-6, Space Quest 1-5, ...), Discworld 1 and 2, Simon the
Sorcerer 1 and 2, Beneath A Steel Sky, Lure of the Temptress, Broken
Sword I and II, Flight of the Amazon Queen, Gobliiins 1-3, The Legend of
Kyrandia series, many of Humongous Entertainment's children's SCUMM
games (including Freddi Fish and Putt Putt games) and many more. You can
find a full list with details on which adventures are supported and how
well on the compatibility page. ScummVM is continually improving, so
check back often.

Among the systems on which you can play those games are regular desktop
computers (running Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, ...), game consoles
(Dreamcast, Nintendo DS & Wii, PS2, PSP, ...), smartphones (Android,
iPhone, PocketPC, Symbian ...) and more.

At this time ScummVM is still under heavy development. Be aware that
whilst we attempt to make sure that many games can be completed with few
major bugs, crashes can happen and we offer no warranty. That being
said, some of the games have been supported for a long time and should
work fine with any recent stable release. You can get a feeling of how
well each game is working in ScummVM by looking at the compatibility
page. Actually if you browse a bit around you might discover that
ScummVM is even being used commercially to re-release some of the
supported games on modern platforms. This shows that several companies
are happy with the quality of the software and how well it can run some
of the games.

If you enjoy ScummVM feel free to donate using the PayPal button on the
ScummVM homepage. This will help us buy utilities needed to develop
ScummVM easier and quicker. If you cannot donate, help and contribute a
patch!

1.2) Quick start:
---- ------------
IMPORTANT: This short guide assumes you are using ScummVM in <translated
language>. By default, ScummVM will use your operating system's
language. If you prefer to use ScummVM in English, You may also prefer
to follow the guide from the English REAMDE file.

For the impatient among you, here is how to get ScummVM running in five
simple steps.

1. Download ScummVM from <http://www.scummvm.org/downloads.php> and
install it.

2. Create a directory on your hard drive and copy the game datafiles
from the original media to this directory. Repeat this for every game
you want to play (it is better to use a separate directory for each
game).

3. Start ScummVM.

If at this stage ScummVM appears in English instead of <translated
language>, do as follow to change the language:
- Click on 'Options'.
- Click on the right arrow in the tab bar and select the 'Misc' tab.
- Select "<translated language>" in the 'GUI Language' box and click on
  'OK'.
- Confirm the message box that pops-up, click on 'Quit' to quit ScummVM
  and then restart the program.

Now choose 'Add game', select the directory with the game datafiles (do
not try to select the datafiles themselves!) and press 'Choose'

4. A dialog should popup allowing you to configure various settings if
you wish to (it should be just fine to leave everything at its default,
though). Confirm the dialog.

5. Select the game you want to play in the list, and press 'Start'.

ScummVM remembers the games that you add. So if you close ScummVM, the
next time you start it again the list of game will contain all the games
you previously added. You can therefore go directly to step 5, unless
you want to add more games.

Hint: If you want to add multiple games in one go, try pressing and
holding the shift key before clicking 'Add game' -- its label will
change to 'Mass Add' and if you press it, you are again asked to select
a directory, only this time ScummVM will search through all
subdirectoriess for supported games.


2.0) Contact:
---- --------
The easiest way to contact the ScummVM team is by submitting bug reports
(see section 2.1) or by using our forums at http://forums.scummvm.org .
You can also join and e-mail the scummvm-devel mailing list, or chat
with us on IRC (#scummvm on irc.freenode.net) Please do not ask us to
support an unsupported game -- read the FAQ on our web site first. Note
that the official language of the forum, mailing list and chat is
English and no other languages should be used.


2.1) Reporting Bugs:
---- ---------------
To report a bug, please create a SourceForge account and follow the "Bug
Tracker" link from our homepage. Please make sure the bug is
reproducible, and still occurs in the latest git/Daily build version.
Also check the known problems list (below) and the compatibility list on
our website for that game, to ensure the issue is not already known:

  http://www.scummvm.org/compatibility_stable.php

Please do not report bugs on games that are not listed as being
completeable in the 'Supported Games' section, or compatibility list. We
-know- those games have bugs.

Please include the following information:
    - ScummVM version (PLEASE test the latest git/Daily build)
    - Bug details, including instructions on reproducing
    - Language of game (English, German, ...)
    - Version of game (talkie, floppy, ...)
    - Platform and Compiler (Win32, Linux, FreeBSD, ...)
    - Attach a savegame if possible
    - If this bug only occurred recently, please note the last version
      without the bug, and the first version including the bug. That way
      we can fix it quicker by looking at the changes made.

Finally, please report each issue separately; do not file multiple
issues on the same ticket. (Otherwise, it gets difficult to track the
status of each individual bug). Please keep also in mind that all the
bug reports must be written in English.
